So in this day I'm going to share my learnings about APIs

What is an API? An API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of rules/functions that two applications can use to communicate with each other. For example, if we build a website and connect it to a database, it's easier. Perhaps if we build a web service to direct the web to the database, we can also build a mobile application and use the web service to access the database. So, it can be concluded that APIs can be adopted into programming languages, libraries, frameworks, operating systems, and software.

What is REST API? REST API is a Web Service that has some rules for requests and responses. REST API is derived from API. So, REST API acts as an intermediary between the client and the database. For example, if I use the Traveloka app, the Traveloka app has all the tickets from the airport, train, and many other tickets. So, why does the Traveloka app have ticket data from the airport? If I use the Garuda app, I can connect to the database, and the Traveloka app can also connect to the Garuda app database via the Garuda apk API, because the Garuda app has an API that can be used by various machines/applications.

What is HTTP Method? HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a communication intermediary between the client and the web application/server over the network. So HTTP is very useful if using Rest API or Restfull API. The concept is, if using Rest API, HTTP method is only for retrieving data (get) and uploading data (post), while if using Restfull API, HTTP method is only for retrieving data (get), uploading data (post), updating data (put), and deleting data (delete). Finally, HTTP method has a status code, if the status code is 200 it means success, if the status code is 204 it means there is no content or the data has been deleted, if the status code is 404 it means not found, and the status code is 500 means internal server error.

How to Request and Respond? Request and Response are just communication tools that come from API, because Request only occurs from the client, the client only needs data for anything that needs data, so the request only goes to the server (RestAPI), the server only processes the http method, URL, etc request from the client to the database, so the database knows what is needed from the server, then the database provides a response to the server, and the server only sends a response to the client, so the client can get whatever data is needed.

What is JSON? JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) comes from the JavaScript programming language. In every programming language, JSON can be used for the same data type, the difference is only in how to call JSON functions in each programming language. So why is JSON so useful or needed for communication over a network? Because JSON is easily understood by both humans and machines. For example, a request from a client only requires any data, so the request is sent to the server (Rest API). The Rest API is just a machine, so the server only processes the request from the client to process JSON. The server (Rest API) then requests JSON to the database, and the database knows what is needed from the server because the request is only in JSON. The database is also just a machine that knows what JSON is needed from the server, so the database provides a response in the form of data to the server (Rest API). The Rest API receives a response from the database in the form of data, then the server will convert the data obtained into JSON, so the next process only occurs on the client. Thus, the client can read any data needed.

What and How FastAPI ? Fast API only framework for back-end, accordance with name Fast API is Framework for building API in language programing python, so another framework in python for django, django same type Fast API, but django slow if any request or respone, so the present Fast API for building API for any request or respone quikcly fast different django and Fast API have a doc for http method usually us for Rest API
